PAYG Guide (#2397)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/specialized-guides/pages/public-cloud-guide/payg-support.adoc

Get a list of all keywords with supportconfig -F.
----

. Wait for the tool to complete the operation.

. The default archive location is `/var/log`, with the file name format being **scc_HOST_DATE_TIME.txz**

== Opening a new support case

To open a new support case for your cloud pay-as-you-go instance, you need to generate a supportconfig file and then follow the steps listed on https://scc.suse.com/cloudsupport

== Billing services and troubleshooting

=== billing-data-service

Serves billing data from {productname} for the **CSP-billing-adapter**
The service is reachable at: 

- http://localhost:18888/
- http://localhost:18888/metering

This service is maintained by the {productname} team
This service only logs to **systemd journal**.

**Billing services** must be running or **spacewalk** will refuse to start.

=== csp-billing-adapter-service

This service reports the billing data to the cloud provider (AWS, AZURE, GCP).
These logs are stored in:

*  `/var/log/csp_billing_aadapter.log`

Additional status information can be located in:

*  `/var/lib/csp-billing-adapter/csp-config.json`

This service is maintained by public cloud team.

> === mgr-check-payg.service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== mgr-check-payg.service

(see the service above -- is service written with DOT or DASH?)
```

> This service checks if **billing-data-service** is installed and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This service checks if ``billing-data-service`` is installed and running.
```

> It also checks if the **csp-billing-adapter-service** is installed and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also checks if the ``csp-billing-adapter-service`` is installed and running.
```

> If these services are not running or installed it will attempt to install and start the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these services are not running or installed, they will attempt to install and start the service.
```

Consequences:: 

> If one of the previous billing services is not running and cannot be installed or started **spacewalk** will refuse to start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If one of the previous billing services is not running and cannot be installed or started, ``spacewalk`` will not start.
```

Check `journalctl -u mgr-check-payg.service` for additional issues.

> === Continuous Compliance checks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Continuous compliance checks
```

> . The **payg-dimension-computation** taskomatic task must be active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. The ``payg-dimension-computation`` taskomatic task must be active.
```

> . Is the billing server running at http://localhost:18888/ ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the billing server is running at http://localhost:18888/.
```

> . Is the **csp-billing-adapter.service** running?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check if the **csp-billing-adapter.service** running.
```

> . What is the status of the **csp-billing-adapter** located in `/var/lib/csp-billing-adapter/csp-config.json`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Check the status of the **csp-billing-adapter** located in `/var/lib/csp-billing-adapter/csp-config.json`.
```

The following files and packages are checked for tampering::

> * Billing-data-service
> * Csp-billing-adapter-service
> * Python3-csp-billing-adapter
> * Python3-csp-billing-adapter-local
> * Python3-csp-billing-adapter-amazon
> * python3-csp-billing-adapter-azure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* billing-data-service
* csp-billing-adapter-service
* python3-csp-billing-adapter
* python3-csp-billing-adapter-local
* python3-csp-billing-adapter-amazon
* python3-csp-billing-adapter-azure
```

Failed Checks::
Failed checks are logged in:

* `/var/log/rhn/rhn_web_ui.log`
* `/var/log/hrn/rhn_taskomatic_daemon.log`

Consequences::

> . No more actions will be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In case of failed checks no more actions will be executed.
```

> . **Reposync** will stop syncing channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. ``reposync`` will stop syncing channels.
```

Your name (-N)
Your phone number (-P)

-i KEYWORDS, -F
Limits the features to check. 
The placeholder KEYWORDS is a comma-separated list of case-sensitive keywords. 
Get a list of all keywords with supportconfig -F.
----

. Wait for the tool to complete the operation.

. The default archive location is `/var/log`, with the file name format being **scc_HOST_DATE_TIME.txz**

== Opening a new support case

To open a new support case for your cloud pay-as-you-go instance, you need to generate a **supportconfig** file and then follow the steps listed on:

link:https://scc.suse.com/cloudsupport[SUSE Customer Center Cloudsupport]

== Billing services and troubleshooting

=== billing-data-service

Serves billing data from {productname} for the **CSP-billing-adapter**.
The service is reachable at: 

- http://localhost:18888/
- http://localhost:18888/metering

This service is maintained by the {productname} team.
This service only logs to **systemd journal**.

**Billing services** must be running or **spacewalk** will refuse to start.

=== csp-billing-adapter-service

This service reports the billing data to the cloud provider (AWS, AZURE, GCP).
These logs are stored in:

> *  `/var/log/csp_billing_aadapter.log`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*  `/var/log/csp_billing_adapter.log`
```
